All right.
Welcome to the course.
Sorry no have the lab notebook out and I want to kind of walk you through really what the first steps
are to putting your idea onto their paper.
Now ideally what you should have is you should have your scope document open and next to you.
And I usually would pull that up on the computer over here just so I can look up and see if I'm missing
anything.
Well keep in mind it's a scope document so you're not going to be putting in every single feature because
we're doing the structure and the structure is more just roughly like where landing page tax should
go whereas the welcome headline roughly where the contact us what columns should we be using things
like that.
This is really the least sophisticated version of it possible.
Now I'm using a and that's because I you know like to live on the edge and I like to use things that
are permanent but also means that I end up throwing paper away all the time.
I suggest using a pencil personally and then going over it with a pen because with a pencil if you make
a funky edge you can just go over it.
But then again guys it just really doesn't matter as long as you can understand it.
And as long as you show it to someone they can understand it.
So let's say that we are making a web project and I typically like to label up at the top whatever it
is and then say something like whatever page it is so you can just say
one way to say Oh hey
OK.
And that's just reminding me of what it is that I'm doodling on again typically what I do is I would
quite copy over here and I would just draw over here to mark out my thoughts.
Now the easiest thing to start with by far is you're looking at this page and you're like I don't know
what to do or do I start.
That's the first thing to do would be to decide what you're making.
Weber mobile if it's web or mobile draw the bounding boxes if you're doing mobile I suggest using the
templates but if you're drawing web just draw a browser around and try to make it look roughly what
you remember about it looking like that will help you kind of get in the mood.
Understand Oh right this is what if you look inside a browser.
So I would just draw a rectangle.
You're a little more spaced don't worry about personality.
The resolution you know deal with that you're
right as you tell the boundary you don't even really helped me that much but you can only imagine how
bad that would be if I was doing it on an ungraded page and then I'll just pretend that it's like a
browser.
We'll pretend this is chrome
I'm someone that has tons and tons of tabs open all the time with the search bar here.
Search bar icons and they usually have a bottom bar.
So there you go.
Now we have a very very basic image of a web browser.
Now it's helpful because now I know whatever I'm drawing is occurring in this space.
One thing that can help you quite a bit is if you draw this outside border like your browser or your
mobile phone if you draw it with a different color jersey you can focus on those layers.
Don't go crazy with it.
Otherwise it looks like a popsicle.
And it's hard to focus your eyes but that's one technique if you use something that's a little bit different
the NSA like blue blue and black are usually easily easy to look at.
I would suggest using purple rather than green.
Keep it keep it a way that people can actually look at it and not go crazy.
OK.
So this is the way that I always start a browser up and you'll see this later when we create our first
wireframe I always start with the same thing.
So the first thing I always do is I almost always put my logo up at the top left and then I draw a navigation
bar.
Now not every single web site does that the same way anymore.
There's a lot of other ways you can look at navigation bars.
And later we'll use some navigation bars and what they look like and the whole different ways of doing
it.
Here it doesn't really matter.
I mean again or just looking at structure.
So I would first decide whether I want to have a traditional web site where I have a logo right here
and then every single page here and then a footer.
Chances are you're always going to have a footer and it's always a good idea to have a footer not just
for SBO purposes but for navigational purposes and you X you don't always have to have a navigation
bar at the top a lot of people have like long form pages now and they just kind of like scroll all the
way down.
And again if you're building an application page then you wouldn't have that right.
You build out the application.
For instance I would put on the left hand bar a bunch of buttons where I can move around you know or
maybe I put it up multiple navigation bars and one up here one over here and one down here.
But so if you're making a normal web site what I always get this is how I always like to start it.
So I just put a box here called Logo OK and then navigation bar will go here up do you not want it.
But I like you it don't be redundant don't put home a navigation bar member you always click on the
logo.
So I would say oh wow
prices about us now remember it doesn't matter.
We're just trying to get the format done.
The rest of it is just junk.
So I'd say that and then well that I make a decision kind of like what kind of style that I want here.
The next thing I do really quickly.
I always draw for her.
So what are really then what are you on here.
And are I always just has like contact us and maybe the logo over here cetera et cetera.
And then you can literally just put her.
So remind yourself whoever is looking at you then you know it's just kind of the way you want to do
it like let's say in this one I'm just to make a a basic kind of cover page design.
A lot of people do that now.
So what you would do is say you have a box like this OK and then it's up to you whether or not you specify
the image in this box.
But what I can say is I can do it like this I can say image.
I can also just put image image image image over here.
Typically what you do is you put some kind of image and then have a call the action button.
If you don't want that and you just want an informational click the button out.
Maybe you're creating a page for promoting a software application or something like that.
So what you would do is you know you probably have like screenshots.
So I would just make a very very rough estimation of what this is going to look like.
OK so that's like a web browser in the back and then Mobile right here and then then mobile phone
and then me I'd go for it.
Now again we're in structure.
So what's going to put right here it's if you were in the skeleton section I would suggest that you
put the actual copywriting an actual slogan or tagline here it just does not matter.
So what I'm just going to put is this is an online and then right here I mean to put you know some vital.